from our what keeps us up at night
Department comes this question are you
one of us a curious soul who can't live
without asking yourself all kinds of
deep thoughtful or even crazy
hypotheticals like why do birds fly what
if the Sun never set where did rocky
road ice cream get its name hmm
anyway why don't we try to figure out
the one about the sunset thing all right
so if the Sun doesn't look as if it's
going to set anytime soon and it's
probably already several days I'm
guessing the planet has probably stopped
spinning and this leaves us with all
kinds of disturbing notions the first
thing you would feel if earth stops
spinning would be a mighty jerk no not
me another mighty jerk our planet
rotates at a velocity of 1037 miles per
hour that's twice as fast as the average
speed of a commercial jet and how
quickly rumors spread on Twitter but
since you rotate along with the planet
and everything else on it you don't
notice this at all now imagine this a
car is flying down the highway at top
speeds and then the driver suddenly
slams on the brakes what's gonna happen
everything and everybody inside the car
will be thrown forward and the
passengers are lucky if they're wearing
seatbelts but you wouldn't have a
seatbelt on if Earth stopped spinning
that's why you along with billions of
other people would fly into the air at
1,000 37 miles per hour that's
incredibly fast but even this speed is
still not enough to launch you into
space that's why unfortunately you'll
only be flying over the surface of the
planet until you hit something going at
a thousand miles an hour now the fact
that Earth is stopped spinning would
mean nothing for the atmosphere which
would keep moving for a while this would
make for winds and waves that you've
never seen before even on TV these gusts
and tsunamis would wreak massive
destruction by wiping away buildings and
cars playgrounds and trees but you know
the worst thing that would happen the
winds would damage and erode the Earth's
crust
then any break in earth spinning would
mess up gravity as a result you're down
after the planet stopped rotating would
feel like it was at a 38 degree angle
from the previous vertical down and it
would knock down the rest of the
buildings and vertical constructions are
we having fun yet
right now the Earth's spin creates a
force that keeps oceans in place if the
earth stopped all the water in the
season oceans would head toward the
poles there would be one massive
supercontinent around the equator with
the south and north poles having turned
into oceans many countries such as
Canada and Greenland and a big part of
Europe and Asia would go underwater also
without rotation the dark side of our
planet would be freezing while the
bright side would be boiling the
constant sunlight would heat the planet
until the temperature rose above boiling
at 212 degrees Fahrenheit the central
supercontinent at the equator would get
the most heat as a result rivers and
lakes would boil away thus any semblance
of life would remain only along narrow
strips of land near the coast but wait
there's more Earth stopped spinning
it's gravity doesn't function anymore
and the next thing you have should you
survive this so far is there's no
atmosphere which is usually kept in
place by the planet's gravitational
force you probably know that the
atmosphere protects the planet from
cosmic radiation that's why the
consequences of losing the atmosphere
would be shall we say bad our beautiful
green planet were turned into a lifeless
lump of rock you and I would just be
lifeless lumps
[Music]
well that's a pretty scary scenario
lucky for you it's highly unlikely to
happen and even if it did it would take
earth around one point nine trillion
years to stop existing
so you have plenty of time to tackle
that to-do list or binge watch bright
side videos mm-hmm but hold on this
isn't the only catastrophic scenario
that pops up in my head at night what
about this what if the Sun suddenly
turned into a black hole what our planet
gets sucked inside and disappear well
research indicates this won't happen it
turns out that the Sun isn't big enough
to turn into a black hole
it's huge all right but a star needs to
be ten times bigger than the Sun to
finally collapse into a black hole and
even if the Sun managed to get the
status of a black hole it'd be a itty
bitty one just four miles across so that
means the gravitational force of this
baby black star wouldn't exceed its
current amount the Sun wouldn't contain
more matter than it has now
and it wouldn't move closer to the
planets so earth wouldn't get sucked
inside and we're all relieved only there
wouldn't be this warm ball of light in
the sky anymore and the planet would
freeze ice would cover its surface the
atmosphere would fall on a planet as
liquid cold rain and the world would
turn into one huge freezer but at least
your lemonade would stay cold okay but
wait what if a stray black hole entered
the solar system would it be able to
swallow the earth don't I really need to
get some sleep although the black hole
would be thousands of times smaller than
Earth its mass would be that much
greater you wouldn't see the approach of
the black hole but you might notice our
neighboring planets disappear one by one
you'll also notice your neighbors
disappearing too whoops hey Bob where'd
you go as soon as the black hole reached
the asteroid belt between Jupiter and
Mars earth would already start to feel
its gravitational pull it would begin to
tear the planet apart causing volcanic
super eruptions and catastrophic
earthquakes
even before the black hole reached our
planet earth would already look like an
uninhabitable magma Laden chunk of rock
I am somewhat relieved by the math at
the possibility of a stray black hole
devouring our planet is one in a
trillion worse odds than the Super Lotto
so let's move to the next troublesome
question what if the Sun threw up
I mean blew up if it happened one day
our yellow star would turn into a much
cooler red giant during this
transformation the Sun would consume
Venus Mercury and us on earth at least
we wouldn't have to suffer for long
since the catastrophe would take no more
than one day at first you would be
oblivious to the solar explosion that
just happened it takes some like 8
minutes and 20 seconds to reach earth
that's why if the Sun blew up you
probably wouldn't realize it for let's
say eight minutes and 20 seconds that's
why I'm leaving with the Dolphins before
it happens so long and thanks for all
the fish if the Sun exploded it would
shoot out a huge amount of very powerful
energy as soon as it reached the planet
this energy would wipe out all life
forms off the surface of the earth but
gee let's imagine that our planet
somehow managed to survive and even keep
going without light from the Sun
unfortunately the leftover radiation
would make sure that nobody and nothing
survived the disaster besides Earth
wouldn't have its ozone layer anymore so
there'd be nothing to protect the planet
from cosmic radiation high temperatures
and other dangerous stuff coming from
space well there's no way to spin this
to a happy ending is there as you can
see it's in our best interest to keep
the Sun safe but what if a gigantic
comet crashed into our star with the Sun
suffer from such a collision would you
like to lock me up in the garage now now
first of all to reach the sun's lower
atmosphere the comet needs to be not
just massive but really massive if a
comet was big enough and it happened to
pass close to the Sun the stars gravity
would catch it and accelerate it steep
fall up to 373 miles per sec
as a result the comet would get
flattened like a pancake before it even
reached the lower atmosphere a few
minutes later the comet would explode
and release x-rays and ultraviolet
radiation it would look as if a bomb was
blown up on the Sun with a gigantic
comet the collision might even cause sun
quakes in the solar atmosphere but
according to scientists people wouldn't
feel even the slightest echo of this
event so I guess there's no point in
worrying about this scenario
alright I feel better now no more doom
and gloom until tomorrow night hey do
you have any other what-if questions
left unanswered go ahead and leave them
in the comment section below and let's
discuss it together remember to hit the
like button share this video with your
curious friends and click subscribe to
stay on the bright side of life
you